Add Callbacks, Links and Webhooks pages (#90)
OAI/learn.openapis.org: specification/webhooks.md

---
layout: default
title: Providing Webhooks
parent: The OpenAPI Specification Explained
nav_order: 9
---

# Providing Webhooks

> Webhooks are a style of communication common in the API economy. Their purpose is to provide bi-directional communications from the API provider to the API consumer to support out-of-band events that do not fit into the pattern of REST APIs. Webhooks fulfill similar purposes to Callbacks in that they support transmitting information about asynchronous or long-running communications. The example of payments APIs discussed in the Callbacks topic also provides an example of the real-world implementations of Webhooks. Many payments API providers implement webhooks to communicate the result of payment operations as an alternative to callbacks. API consumers can implement a webhook at a URL of their choosing to receive out-of-band updates on a previously submitted, long-running request. This avoids implementing polling patterns, which many API providers find onerous to support.

Reviewer: should we distinguish that with the callback that usually in the webhook the client is not the initiator of the request. like i can subscribe to the github webhook of commit , so that even if i do not do a commit but someone else i got notified 

and that webhook suppose a pre registration

Author: I've added clarifications here and used the example of GitHub to show how pre-registration can facilitate using Webhooks.

---
layout: default
title: Providing Webhooks
parent: The OpenAPI Specification Explained
nav_order: 9
---

# Providing Webhooks

> Webhooks are a style of communication common in the API economy. Their purpose is to provide bi-directional communications from the API provider to the API consumer to support out-of-band events that do not fit into the pattern of REST APIs or Callbacks. Webhooks fulfill similar purposes to Callbacks in that they support transmitting information about asynchronous or long-running communications. The example of payments APIs discussed in the Callbacks topic also provides an example of the real-world implementations of Webhooks. Many payments API providers implement webhooks to communicate the result of payment operations. API consumers can implement a webhook at a URL of their choosing to receive out-of-band updates on a previously submitted, long-running request. This avoids implementing polling patterns, which many API providers find onerous to support.

Reviewer: > Their purpose is to provide bi-directional communications 
this sentense may be missleadding, as  webhook is not bi directionnal ,

and it is not clear the differences between webhook and callback 

my own definition of webhook vs callback is given a server S , and a Client C1
given an action done by C1,  callback is a called from S to C1  ,

vs webhook supports more a brodcast pattern , meaning that given 2 clients C1, C2 an action done by C2 can trigger a webhook that C1 will receive . meaning the receiver of the call is not a reaction toward a previous call 
it could even be a webhook due to date . this is why it requires a registration mecanism , like a clock for instance

callback does not need it , url can even be provided at run time

Implementing Webhooks typically involves a registration step, which can be defined using regular Operations and allows API consumers to only consume the events they want to receive. [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/webhooks/using-webhooks/creating-webhooks) provides a great example of an API provider who makes extensive use of Webhooks and the means to register for specification events.

API providers still need to define the shape of a given webhook, however. They can do this using the `webhooks` property which is found at the root of the [OpenAPI document](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0#openapi-object).

<figure style="text-align:center">
  <object type="image/svg+xml" data="{{site.baseurl}}/img/webhook-object.svg"></object>
  <figcaption>Webhooks are implemented at the root of the OpenAPI object</figcaption>
</figure>

> A webhook is, in fact, simply a Path Item Object and can support one or more Operation objects. The key difference is that Webhooks are not encapsulated by a Paths Object, as the expectation is that an API consumer will host the webhook at a URL of their choosing. Webhooks therefore define a template, expressed as a Path Item, for API consumers to follow in how they implement the webhook and validate incoming events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A webhook is, in fact, simply a Path Item Object and can support one or more Operation objects. The key difference is that Webhooks are not encapsulated by a Paths Object, as the API consumer registers (via an out-of-band mechanism) to receive the webhook at a URL of their choosing. Webhooks therefore describe a template, expressed as a Path Item, for API consumers to follow in how they implement the webhook and validate incoming events.
```
